Create issue label roadmap (#15283)
dotnet/docs: styleguide/labels-projects.md

# Labels and projects roadmap

> The .NET docs team makes extensive use of [GitHub labels](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels) to organize our work. By filtering on combinations of labels, we can quickly focus on sections of the [.NET docs website](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet) of interest. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The .NET docs team makes extensive use of [GitHub labels](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels) to organize our work. By filtering on combinations of labels, we can quickly focus on sections of interest on the [.NET docs website](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet). 
```

We also use [GitHub projects](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/projects) to organize sprints and other goal-oriented epics.

This roadmap explains how we use these organizational tools, and has links to handy filters we use to find areas of interest.

## Labels

> If this is your first experience with [dotnet/docs](https://github.com/dotnet/docs), start with the [up-for-grabs](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/up-for-grabs) issues. These are issues that have a more focused scope. They are a great way to make your first contribution. From the up-for-grabs view, you can further filter issues based on areas and priority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this is your first experience contributing to [dotnet/docs](https://github.com/dotnet/docs), start with the [up-for-grabs](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/up-for-grabs) issues. These are issues that have a more focused scope. They are a great way to make your first contribution. From the up-for-grabs view, you can further filter issues based on areas and priority.
```

We use labels to classify issues in many different ways:

> - [.NET Guides](find-a-single-net-guide) and [sections of a guide](#search-one-section-of-a-guide).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [.NET Guides](#find-a-single-net-guide) and [sections of a guide](#search-one-section-of-a-guide).
```

- [Target release](#releases)
- [Priority](#priority)

You can combine a label from each set (guide, release, priority) to create a narrow focus to find issues you want to work on.

### Find a single .NET guide

> We use labels for each of the architecture guides, and for each .NET Guide. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use labels for each of the architecture guides and for each .NET Guide. 
```

![:book: guide on light green background](./images/guide.png "Prefix for architecture guide labels")

Architecture guides are noted with the `:book: guide` prefix and have a light green background. These are the long-form areas that cover recommended architecture. Here are current issues filtered for each of the .NET architecture guides.

- [ASP.NET Core web apps](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abook%3A%20guide%20-%20ASP.NET%20Core%20web%20apps)
- [Blazor](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abook%3A%20guide%20-%20Blazor)
- [Cloud Native](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abook%3A%20guide%20-%20Cloud%20Native)
- [Docker lifecycle](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abook%3A%20guide%20-%20Docker%20lifecycle)

> - [Framework design guidelines](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abook%3A%20guide%20-%20Framework%20Design%20Guidelines)

Reviewer 2: Isn't it the copyrighted content where contributions are not allowed/welcome? Entry in this list looks like an invitation to contribute.

Author: It is. I'll add a note regarding that.

- [F# Guide](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20F%23%20Guide)
- [ML.NET Guide](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20ML.NET%20Guide)
- [.NET Architecture Guide](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20.NET%20Architecture%20Guide) - Could be removed
- [.NET Core Guide](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20.NET%20Core%20Guide)
- [.NET for Apache Spark Guide](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20.NET%20for%20Apache%20Spark%20Guide)
- [.NET Framework Guide](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20.NET%20Framework%20Guide)
- [.NET Guide](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20.NET%20Guide)
- [Roslyn API Reference](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20Roslyn%20API%20Reference) - could be removed.
- [Visual Basic Guide](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20Visual%20Basic%20Guide)

#### Search one section of a guide

![:card_file_box: Area on medium blue background](./images/technology.png "Prefix for .NET Guide sub-area labels")

> The .NET guides are large, so these labels further limit the scope by a section of a guide. Each .NET Guide is noted with the `:card_file_box: Technology` prefix and has a medium blue background. Many of these labels apply to multiple guides. You should add one of these labels after scoping your search to one of the areas described in the previous section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The .NET guides are large, so these labels further limit the scope by a section of a guide. Each .NET Guide subarea is noted with the `:card_file_box: Technology` prefix and has a medium blue background. Many of these labels apply to multiple guides. Add one of these labels to your filter after scoping your search to one of the areas described in the previous section.
```

- AppCompat
- Async Task
- C# Advanced concepts
- C# compiler
- C# Fundamentals
- C# Get Started
- C# Language Reference
- C# Null safety
- C# What's new
- CLI
- Data Access
- Docker
- Installers
- LINQ
- NCL
- .NET Standard
- Roslyn APIs
- Security
- WCF
- WF
- WIF
- WinForms
- WPF

### Releases

![:checkered_flag: Release: on dark yellow](./images/release.png "Prefix for release labels")

Issues tagged for a specific release are noted with the `:checkered_flag: Release:` prefix and have a dark yellow background. 

- .NET Core 2.1
- .NET Core 2.2
- .NET Core 3.0
- .NET Framework 4.7.2
- .NET Framework 4.8

### Priority

> Priority labels are all `P` followed by a single digit. Lower numbers are higher priority:

Reviewer: The rest of the org uses Pri1, Pri2, Pri3, etc. instead of P1, P2, P3. Can we standardize and rename the dotnet priority labels to match?

Author: We do have an internal discussion on that subject.  It may happen shortly.

- P0
- P1
- P2

### What about the other labels?

> There are many other labels used by the content teams to manage different classifications of issues. The labels can be ignored outside of the content team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many other labels used by the content teams to manage different classifications of issues. If you're not on the content team, you can ignore these other labels.
```

# Labels and projects roadmap

The .NET docs team makes extensive use of [GitHub labels](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels) to organize our work. By filtering on combinations of labels, we can quickly focus on sections of interest on the [.NET docs website](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet). 

We also use [GitHub projects](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/projects) to organize sprints and other goal-oriented epics.

This roadmap explains how we use these organizational tools, and has links to handy filters we use to find areas of interest.

## Labels

> If this is your first experience contributing to [dotnet/docs](https://github.com/dotnet/docs), start with the [up-for-grabs](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/up-for-grabs) issues. These are issues that have a more focused scope. They are a great way to make your first contribution. From the up-for-grabs view, you can further filter issues based on areas and priority.

Author: I'm going to change the name from "easy" to "good first issue" to match the product team. And yes.

We use labels to classify issues in many different ways:

- [.NET Guides](#find-a-single-net-guide) and [sections of a guide](#search-one-section-of-a-guide).
- [Target release](#releases)
- [Priority](#priority)

You can combine a label from each set (guide, release, priority) to create a narrow focus to find issues you want to work on.

### Find a single .NET guide

We use labels for each of the architecture guides and for each .NET Guide. 

![:book: guide on light green background](./images/guide.png "Prefix for architecture guide labels")

> Architecture guides are noted with the `:book: guide` prefix and have a light green background. These are the long-form areas that cover recommended architecture. Here are current issues filtered for each of the .NET architecture guides.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Architecture e-books are noted with the `:book: guide` prefix and have a light green background. These are the long-form areas that cover recommended architecture. Here are current issues filtered for each of the .NET architecture guides.
```

- [.NET for Apache Spark Guide](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20.NET%20for%20Apache%20Spark%20Guide)
- [.NET Framework Guide](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20.NET%20Framework%20Guide)
- [.NET Guide](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20.NET%20Guide)
- [Roslyn API Reference](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20Roslyn%20API%20Reference) - could be removed.
- [Visual Basic Guide](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/labels/%3Abooks%3A%20Area%20-%20Visual%20Basic%20Guide)

#### Search one section of a guide

![:card_file_box: Area on medium blue background](./images/technology.png "Prefix for .NET Guide sub-area labels")

The .NET guides are large, so these labels further limit the scope by a section of a guide. Each .NET Guide subarea is noted with the `:card_file_box: Technology` prefix and has a medium blue background. Many of these labels apply to multiple guides. Add one of these labels to your filter after scoping your search to one of the areas described in the previous section.

> 

Reviewer 3: link to these labels or no?

Author: I was thinking not to link to these here. There are many that only apply in one area. I'd expect folks would filter first on an "area", than on a "technology".  I'll change the sentence to make it more clear.

- AppCompat
- Async Task
- C# Advanced concepts
- C# compiler
- C# Fundamentals
- C# Get Started
- C# Language Reference
- C# Null safety
- C# What's new
- CLI
- Data Access
- Docker
- Installers
- LINQ
- NCL
- .NET Standard
- Roslyn APIs
- Security
- WCF
- WF
- WIF
- WinForms
- WPF

### Releases

![:checkered_flag: Release: on dark yellow](./images/release.png "Prefix for release labels")

Issues tagged for a specific release are noted with the `:checkered_flag: Release:` prefix and have a dark yellow background. 

- .NET Core 2.1
- .NET Core 2.2
- .NET Core 3.0

> - .NET Framework 4.7.2

Reviewer 3: I thought we'd remove the Framework ones and 2.1 now

Author: I haven't removed them yet, but that's the plan. I'll remove them from this article.
